## 🎯 Goal: Deploy Spring Boot application on AWS EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) <==> Back End Project on Cloud (AWS)

* **What?** Project that I carried out for learning with the help of a tutorial by Fernanda Kipper. It demonstrates a possible process of deploying a Spring Boot application to an AWS EC2 instance.

### 🛠 Steps to Achieve the Goal:

#### Simple flow overview on AWS (Set Up AWS Resources):

1. Create VPC (Virtual Private Cloud);

2. Create Security Group (EC2 feature); to allow access via SSH and on the port 8080. SSH is used to connect to the AWS VM from a local machine (e.g., IDE, CMD, and others).

3. Create Key Pairs (EC2 feature) for SSH, Generate an SSH key pair on local machine and link it to AWS through Key Pairs.

4. Create an EC2 instance to launch the app;
    * Amazon Linux OS was used for the VM;
    * SSH connection to the instance was established via CMD. The following commands were executed:
```bash
sudo yum install # general updates
```
```bash
sudo yum install java-17-amazon-corretto-headless # install Java compatible with the VM OS
```
```bash
java --version # verify if Java is correctly installed
```
Then, you can go to your IDE and run:
```bash
mvn package
```
Copy the build file to the EC2 instance using the exemple command: **e.g.:**
```bash
scp target/<artifact_name_here...>-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar <user-created-ec2_here>@<dns_OR_IPV4_here>:home/<user-created-ec2_here>
```
I disconnected from the console and logged into the ide again via SSH.
```bash
ls # to check if the file was successfully transferred.
``` 
Make a request GET to endpoint: **api/test**
* Can be called like in Postman, Insomnia, via curl,  or through a browser by accessing the URL... Using the DNS or IPV4 generated by AWS.

✅ Expected Result:
You should see the response:
Working...

⚠️ Observation: This is a demonstration, and following the same steps may not guarantee the same result, as it depends on factors such as the operating system, possible updates from AWS, and other variables that may influence the process.